[MUSIC]
Hello again, in this video, we're
creating ourselves a projectile that will
instantiate at a gun position on our
cactus so it looks like it can shoot, pew,
right from his gun hand and
not from on top of his face.
Okay, let's jump in and get started.
I left you with a little bit of
ambiguity at the end of last video.
So lets clarify that and
get cleaned up on it.
So it's to do with the animation event and
how it looks whether it looks like this
structure that we've seen before,
or if it looks another way.
Now the difference is if your clicked on
the game object that has an animation
on it, so click Game object, to go the
Animation window, find the CactusAttack.
You can see the animation event in
here has a drop-drown menu, and
it doesn't have all the other information.
That's how it looks, when it's the game
object's animation, that it's controlling.
And it's saying, I'm gonna look for
anything that I think is a valid function,
or method, as we call it,
that this particular game object
can do from this animation event.
And it's saying, well, I think you can do
set movement speed because I know that's
in the project, but it's not supported.
Function not supported
means that our cactus
doesn't have it on the script
that would allow us to do that.
That script is in the attacker script, and
the attacker script is on the attackers,
not on the cactus.
Okay, but if we were just straight up on
the Animation > Defenders > CactusAttack.
Then it's gonna look differently,
it's gonna give us this sort of structure,
this sort of look to it.
So what I'm gonna do is just delete,
it's put in set movement speed just for
when we're monkeying around before,
I think it's put that in as the default.
We don't want that in there,
at the moment we don't want it to
be called any sort of function.
We haven't created it yet, we could create
it in here by saying let's call it fire
and then go into our script and
create fire.
I'm gonna do it the other way around
just to show you how it works
the other way around.
So, let's go and
create ourselves a new script.
Go in the Script folder, right-click
Create C# Script, I'll call this,
so this is gonna be on our character to
make our character to be able to shoots,
so let's call it the Shooter script.
This turns you into a shooter
when you have the script,
open up that in Visual Studio.
Now what do we need to do in here?
Well, let's start by creating our method.
I'm just gonna delete all this stuff,
we'll probably use it at some point, but
for now, we'll keep it nice and clean,
just have just the things
in there that we're using.
So we need to create a public
method of no return type, so
of avoid return type I should say,
we'll call this Fire.
We're not gonna pass anything
in at the moment, and
within there, we want to do something.
But I'll get to the something in a minute,
we'll just say return,
that means nothing's going on when
you ask to call Fire, just return.
Just go back to your business.
So I'll save that, and
then jump back over into here.
And you can see when we clicked on Cactus,
and we go to the Cactus' attack animation.
So once it finishes compiling CactusAttack
we can go and click on our animation
event and from our drop-down we should
see if we've done it correctly.
What have you done Rick?
You doofus, we haven't actually told
cactus that it has this script,
so drag your shooter
script over on to cactus.
Now, it will now, I did that deliberately
to make a point, no I didn't.
Now we know when we clicked on Cactus
from the cactus animation event and
click on that.
So cactus animation and
we click on the animation event,
if I can click it properly,
nothing is going right at the moment.
There we go, got it,
then the function should say Fire.
Now we can select Fire from
our list of functions.
We don't have the other information,
we don't have any other,
well what if we wanted to fire fast or
fire slow?
We can do that by going back
into our script within Fire,
saying we need when something calls Fire,
we need it to pass to us some parameters.
So let's just make this up for right now.
I'm gonna delete this so you don't have
to type along, we'll say float and
damage for example.
If we want to put damage there, save that.
Now we may go back in once it compiles,
taking it's time, time for
faster computer Ric, I think.
Waiting, waiting,waiting,
okay, loading, there we go.
Now it's gonna have this parameter where
we can say, well the damage might be 20.
And this is the kind of thing that's
useful if we've got a fighting game,
it might be left jab is just here,
left jab is just there, and
then right punch is just there.
That's 10 damage,
10 damage, and 30 damage.
If you wanted that level of control
within your animation events.
Okay, I'm just gonna go back in here,
remove my parameters,
we don't need that, Save.
That will return from whence it came,
which is great.
Now we need to give it
a projectile to shoot.
Now we've said, we want you to shoot
something, we're gonna call this and
something's gonna happen.
Let's go and create a projectile, so from
my Sprites folder, the they're not in use,
I'm gonna grab the zucchini.
You can grab whatever your heart desires,
do something different.
Do something that is maybe a little bit
more sensible than a cactus shooting
a zucchini.
I'm gonna drag that into my Cactus folder,
click on Cactus.
Now from here we need to turn
this into a game object so
that we can turn it into a prefab.
At the moment this is just a Sprite,
this zucchini here.
So dragging it into our hierarchy
create a zucchini game object.
And within that we have our Sprite
renderer that's automatically created and
automatically assigned
the zucchini sprite, excellent.
And this is down at our 0, 0 position.
So if we reset it's still 0, 0, great.
And we need to change the order in layer,
so I'm gonna put it at six, I think.
Let's just drag it up and
put it next to the Cactus,
that means it'll sit over the top
of the Cactus, which is good.
We could play around and see,
does it look better underneath the cactus?
No, if he's shooting something he's
not gonna be shooting it from his back
unless it's some sort of butt projectile.
[LAUGH] But
it's not that kind of game now, is it?
So for our game it's gonna be shooting
out from the front of our cactus.
Okay, so we've got that, now to turn
this into a prefab what do we do?
Well, we click our Prefabs folder, drag
the zucchini down into the Prefabs folder,
we now have a zucchini
prefab that we can use.
Every time we instantiate a zucchini it's
gonna come from our zucchini prefabs,
fantastic.
Now, what to do next?
Well, next let's instantiate our zucchini.
So we need a way of actually
telling it what the zucchini is.
We need a reference to the zucchini,
so we'll serialize field and
we'll call it GameObject as type.
In the future we might put
a projectile script on
the zucchini making it class projectile
when we do that to make it more precise.
Cuz when we say GameObject,
we could drag any odd thing in there and
accidentally mess it up.
But for now, we'll say GameObject cuz
that's the tightest we have at the moment
I believe for it, and
we'll call it projectile, all right?
We get rid of our return,
instead of that we're gonna instantiate.
So let's instantiate, now little mini
challenge for you, if you remember how to
instantiate something, we need to have the
object, the position, and the rotation.
So drop that in now if you will.
Okay, so we're instantiating the
projectile, where are we instantiating it?
Well, we'll do it at
just transform.position,
that'll be in the middle
of the game objects,
that'll be in the middle of the Cactus,
and then we want to do the rotation.
We can either do the Quaternion.identity,
or
we could do the transform.rotation and
if we spell transform correctly it helps.
[LAUGH] Both of those
Transform.rotation or
Quaternion.identity, they're both
saying we don't need any rotation,
just get the rotation that you arrive
with when you're instantiated.
Okay, let's save that up,
jump back over into the game,
I'm gonna delete my zucchini game object.
It should be instantiating from
the prefabs, so click on your Cactus and
then make sure assigning the zucchini or
whatever yours is as the projectile.
Now when we click on Play,
he'll go through,
we have to look at his animator down here.
He'll go through his idle and
then block into the attack, and
then spawn a zucchini every time
the animation loops around in the attack
loops around to that point in there.
But it's instantiating in the middle
a little of a crappy spot.
It's just shoving them right in the middle
of this game object and saying,
there you go.
And that's something that we
want to rectify by saying well,
he should be shooting it rather than
shooting it from wherever his gun hand is.
And you can go ahead and find an art
asset and put the gun in the hand,
totally do that.
I'm just gonna pretend
that he's holding a gun.
Okay, so let's give the Cactus a gun.
I'm just gonna close up Canvas there.
So under Cactus, right click, or
on Cactus right click Create Empty,
I will call this just Gun.
Okay, and because I created my empty
while it was sitting on a Cactus,
it's centered right in the middle of
the Cactus and childed to the cactus.
Make sure you've childed
the gun to the cactus.
If it's not, you can just drag
gun over the top of Cactus and
it will be childed to it.
Now, where do we wanna position our gun?
It's as simple as just moving the gun
child game object to where we think
the gun hand would be.
You can put it all the way down there if
you wanted, probably wouldn't look so
good, but we'll put it over here
to the right of the cactus.
Okay, that's looking pretty cool,
we've got a position for
our gun, now it's challenge time.
I'd like for you to instantiate
the projectile from this gun position.
So it's a bit of a quicker challenge,
we need to create a reference for
our gun Game Object should
be pretty straight forward,
there is a hint in the script already.
And we need to instantiate
the projectile from where the gun
is positioned which is as
simple as one word and one dot.
So there you go, should be pretty quick to
take on that challenge if you've got our
concepts along the way,
I'll see you back here in a moment Okay,
hopefully that all made sense.
I'm gonna start off by giving ourselves
a reference to gun by, I'll copy this.
You know what I'm gonna do?
I'm gonna show you a slightly
different way to do things.
We haven't done this yet, but
I could create our variable by saying
Serializefield GameObject and then gun.
And that allows us to have a new
variable that we know is going to
have a field in our inspector so
we can drag our gun Game Object into.
Okay, that's one way of writing it, but
because these are both the same type, and
we're serializing them both.
Here is a slight little thing, you can do
a little trick if you prefer to cut down
on space, you can just say comma gun.
And that will create two variables that
are both of type Game Object that we're
serializing.
You can have as many of
these as you want here.
Gun and then otherThing, and then handBag,
and then hairclip, okay you get the point.
So, you can have as many
of those as you want.
So, you can group them together or
split them out separate, is up to you.
Okay, so we've created a gun.
Now instantiating is as simple as
saying instead of instantiating at
the transform.position of this
Game Object, we know where the gun is so
let's instantiate at
gun.transform.position.
Hopefully you figured that out,
hopefully I wasn't too cryptic
with my clue just there.
But we're instantiating
at the guns position.
We'll save that up,
jump back over in the Unity,
click on Play,
see if our mission is successful.
Watch the animator for
a little bit of excitement, so
we can see that we're going through
the idle, idle, idle, idle, and
then over into attack once we get to the
certain frame, [SOUND] it's not appearing.
Why is that?
Let's do a little bit of troubleshooting.
Okay, you've probably guessed it,
this is me being a doofus again.
We haven't actually assigned
our gun to the field.
So let's drag gun over into our field,
now it should all work.
And we know to apply
that back to the prefab.
So this cactus gun is always gonna
work when we instantiate new
cactuses in the future,
cacti in the future.
Okay, here we go, idle animation,
tack, tack, tack, tack, boom and
it's spawning right on his hand, or
instantiating right on where his hand is.
And so we can do a little bit of
playing around with the size of the of
the zucchini and the positioning of it,
but that's the essence of it.
Great work, well done on
setting up a gun flash shooter,
and I will see you in the next video